PseudoCode

Preliminaries 

1. Find the number of bonds and atoms in the molecule.
2. Find the number of disconnected components in the molecule (using Minimal Spanning Tree).
3. Find the ring nullity for the molecule (number bonds - number atoms + number components).
4. If nullity = 0 then there are no rings so END with a TRUE, else proceed.
5. For each atom give an identification number to allow identification in later stages.
6. For each bond give an identification number to allow identification in later stages.
7. Remove all terminal one-connected atoms iteratively until no more remain.

Stage 1.

1. Find the connectivity index for each atom by going to FIND CONNECTIVITY INDEX (see below).  
2. Find the atom with the lowest connectivity index for all atoms in the remaining molecule.
3. Select any bond from this least connected atom and remove it.
4. Add this bond to a new fragment subgraph.
5. Remove all terminal one-connected atoms iteratively from the molecule until no more remain.
6. Add each atom and bond removed to the fragment subgraph.
7. If a bond removed is connected to an atom still remaining in the original molecule add this connector atom to the fragment. Update the connectivity index for these connector atoms.
8. Add a new node to the reduced edge graph which corresponds to this fragment.
9. Perform a ring nullity calculation on the fragment.  If the fragment is cyclic add the ring to the list of rings found.
10. If the fragment contains a ring find if there is a terminal one-connected atom. 
11. If the fragment is cyclic and contains a one-connected atom mark this node as a Type III fragment.
12. If the fragment is cyclic and does not contain a one-connected atom mark this node as a Type II fragment.
13. If the fragment is acyclic mark this node as a Type I fragment. 
14. Repeat steps 1 to 13 until no more atoms remain in the molecule.
15. If the ring nullity of the original molecule is reached then END with a TRUE.

Stage 2.

1. For each Type I fragment (Fragment A) there are two terminal atoms. Find which fragment each of these atoms is in.
2. If both terminal atoms in Fragment A also exist in a single fragment (Fragment B) then proceed, otherwise goto step 1. 
3. Find the shortest path between the two terminal atoms in Fragment B.
4. Add this shortest path to Fragment A.
5. Test the ring for uniqueness by comparing with all rings found far. If unique add to list of rings found and proceed, else goto 1.
6. Test the ring produced for ring splitting by going to TEST RING SPLITTING (see below).
7. Repeat steps 1 to 6 until no more Type I fragments remain.
8. If the ring nullity of the original molecule is reached then END with a TRUE.

Stage 3.

1. For each Type I fragment (Fragment A) in the list of fragments.
2. Find the terminal atoms in Fragment A.
3. Remove all bonds in Fragment A from the original molecule.
4. Test the number of disconnected components has not increased in step 3, if so then goto step 1, else proceed.
4. Find the shortest path in the remaining molecule between the terminal atoms.
5. Add the shortest path to Fragment A.
6. Test the ring for uniqueness by comparing with all rings found far. If unique add to list of rings found and proceed, else goto step 1.
7. Test the ring produced for ring splitting by going to TEST RING SPLITTING (see below).
8. Repeat steps 1 to 7 until no more Type I fragments remain.
9. If the ring nullity of the original molecule is reached then END with a TRUE.

Stage 4.

1. For each fragment find all other fragments which contain any of its atoms.
2. Where fragments share atoms make an edge between the respective nodes in the reduced edge graph.
3. Find the smallest set of smallest rings in the reduced edge graph using any established algorithm.
4. For each ring in the reduced edge graph find the nodes making up this ring.
5. If the ring contains an unfound linear node then process this ring, otherwise get next ring.
6. Add the fragment corresponding to each node in the reduced edge graph ring to make a subgraph.
7. Send the subgraph to find the rings using the above method recursively from the Preliminaries stage above.
8. Test the rings found for uniqueness by comparing with all rings found far. If unique add to list of rings found and proceed, else goto step 4.
9. Test the ring produced for ring splitting by going to TEST RING SPLITTING (see below). 
10. Repeat steps 4 to 9 until no more unfound Type I fragments remain.
11. If the ring nullity of the original molecule is reached then END with a TRUE.
12. If rings remain to be found repeat steps 4 to 11 but ignore step 5.
13. If the ring nullity of the original molecule is not reached then END with a FALSE.

FIND CONNECTIVITY INDEX

1. Find the number of neighbours for each atom. 
2. Find the connectivity index where if the number of neighbours is 1,2,3 or >3 the index is 0,2,8,64 respectively.
3. Find the total index for each atom by adding the connectivity index for an atom to that of each of its neighbours.

TEST RING SPLITTING

1. Take a ring, Ring A, from the list of rings found.
2. Find the number of bonds in common with the newly found ring, Ring B.
3. If the number of bonds in common is more than the number of bonds exclusive to Ring B then proceed, else goto step 1. 
4. Remove the common bonds from Ring A and add the bonds exclusive to Ring B.
5. Test the newly produced ring does not already exist in the list of found rings.
6. If the new ring is unique then update Ring A in the list.
7. If the new ring is not unique remove Ring A from the list.
8. Repeat steps 1 to 7 until no more rings remain to be tested in the list of rings found.



